# Object-Tracking-Robot
# We have built a four wheeled robot with an Arduino microcontroller, specifically the Arduino Mega 2650. We have written Arduino and Android libraries to allow an Android device to control the robot through a USB connection. The robot is designed to track objects by spinning left and right to keep the object in sight and driving forward and backward to maintain a constant distance between the robot and the object. Images are acquired through the camera of an Android device which is attached to the robot. By using this robot, we can quickly get the amount of information available to the rescuers and more lives can be saved.
# •	To develop a color-based object tracking system using the Arduino.
# •	To implement computer vision techniques to detect and follow objects of specific colors.
# •	To create a user-friendly interface for color selection and adjustments.
# •	To enable the robot to autonomously make decisions based on the position and size of detected objects.
# •	To integrate remote operation and monitoring capabilities.
# A successful implementation of an object tracking robot is illustrated in this research. This robot does not only have the detection capability but also the tracking and following ability as well. The tracking is basically performed on the tag and the object is followed on the basis of that detection. It was also kept in mind that the “following” capability of the robot should be as efficient as possible. The tests were performed on the different conditions to pin point the mistakes in the algorithm and correct them. The different sensors that were integrated with the robot added an additional advantage.    
